Dear Mr. Smith,

I am submitting my resume for consideration for the summer application design internship program at ABC Company. Given the skills and experience outlined in my enclosed resume, I believe I will be a worthy asset to your team.

In my three years at XYZ College, I’ve completed a great deal of coursework on cutting-edge design trends and best practices, including Principles of User Experience Design and Mobile Application Design, where I learned and applied skills such as user journey mapping, application wire framing and designing software for a variety of mobile devices and operating systems.

In addition, I spent the past semester volunteering my time with a local non-profit that collects donated clothes and furniture and redistributes it to families in need. I helped the web team update and re-launch an application that allows people in the community to locate nearby drop-off points and schedule pick-ups.

Finally, my two years working as a barista at the student centre has taught me the importance of building a convenient and memorable consumer experience that aligns with the brand. It also helped me grow my skills in team collaboration, verbal communication and project leadership.

I believe I would make an excellent addition to your team. This internship would help me grow my real-world experience in the technology industry and help me further develop and refine my application design skills.

I look forward to hearing from you!

Sincerely,
Erica Garcia


Dear Ms. Smith,

I am writing to apply for the scientific research summer internship position that was listed in the Anytown University Career Services Office. I believe my research and conservation experience make me an ideal candidate.

I have had a great deal of research experience in chemistry, biology, and geology, both in the lab and in the field. Most of my experience is in environmental field studies. I am currently conducting research in our school's outdoor laboratory to assess the water quality of a nearby pond. I know water quality assessment is a component of this internship, and I know my previous experience makes me a prime candidate for this.

Last summer, I worked as a conservation assistant at the National Trust's Clumber Park. Along with trail maintenance and building, I also served as a research assistant for the research organisation at the park. I conducted an analysis of soil samples, and input data from various research projects. I received a special commendation from the director of the research organisation for my attention to detail and dedication to research.

I believe that I would be an asset to your program. This internship would provide me with the ideal opportunity to assist your organisation and to expand my research skills.

I will call next week to see if you agree that my qualifications seem to be a match for the position. If so, I hope to schedule an interview at a mutually convenient time. I look forward to speaking with you.

Thank you for your consideration,

Sincerely,
Joseph Q. Applicant

Dear Mr. Scheck,

I would like to apply for a summer internship position with Innovation. I learned of your company through the placement centre at University of Missouri.

I am currently majoring in architecture at the University of Missouri and will receive my degree this spring. While I have a comprehensive architectural background, my emphasis is on rehabilitation and renovation. I feel that your firm places prominence in similar areas and having the privilege of serving as an intern with you will give me that further exposure I need to advance my career.

Upon graduating, I hope to work for a firm that specializes in rehabilitation and renovation architectural development and eventually start my own firm. With the right opportunities and experience to cutting edge projects and designs, I believe I can achieve this goal. I hope to with your firm’s help.

I previously held a summer internship at Smithers & Associates, a St. Louis-based architecture firm. While there, I used CAD technology to help design floor plans for a multi-level retail space. I also used the drafting techniques I learned on the Digital Terrain Monitor (DTM) to assist on the redesign of a movie theatre in downtown St. Louis. This could be of interest to you, as I recently read on your website that Innovations will be renovating three entertainment venues in the coming year.

I would like the opportunity to meet with you to discuss any internship opportunities you might have. Please let me know if you have any questions or would like to see some work samples. You can reach me by phone at (444) 536-1212 or by email at cwatkins@email.com.

Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely,
Chandra Watkins

Dear Ruben,

I am sending you this mail to ask you to consider me as an intern for the second half of 2020. I can imagine that you receive quite a few applications so I will try to keep this brief. 

My name is Do?a Gönüllü (1992). I’m originally from Istanbul, Turkey but have been living in the Netherlands for the last couple of years. I started my studies in Istanbul at Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University before transferring to ArtEZ Arnhem. I have been interested in editorial design for quite some time and this interest grew over the time I have been studying in the Netherlands. 

I was first acquainted with your work in 2013 with the identity design of the 13th Istanbul Biennale. It was a specific time in my life - like every other Turkish citizen who were involved in the Gezi Protests - and this work showed me two different sides of design, the ethical and the un-ethical, something that I had never considered before.

Currently one of my interests is the use of archival books as an imitation technique. There is something quite intriguing that while a book can act as a placeholder of the original, it can become something more than just a repetition, an object of its own. 

Besides focusing on representations in book design, I’ve recently started researching representations of ourselves in digital media, how this affects our (social) behaviour and how graphic design can help us realise the weight of our decisions when it comes to this issue.

I have admired your approach to design not only from the perspective of a designer but also a writer and a researcher for some time now and I think it is quite unique for a designer to produce their own work. I would love the opportunity to learn from you.

I would like to invite you to take a look at my website (link below) to see some of my recent work. You will find a selection of books, research based projects and essays. 

If you have any questions or want more information about certain projects please let me know. 

All the best,
Do?a Gönüllü

Dear Roger,

I am sending you this mail to ask you to consider me as an intern for the second half of 2020. I can imagine that you receive quite a few applications so I will try to keep this brief. 

My name is Do?a Gönüllü (1992). I’m originally from Istanbul, Turkey but have been living in the Netherlands for the last couple of years. I started my studies in Istanbul at Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University before transferring to ArtEZ Arnhem. I have been interested in books and bookmaking for quite some time and this interest grew over the time I have been studying in the Netherlands. 

I am especially interested in books as objects; the idea of making a book that doesn’t just carry and communicate information but can also stand and live on its own. I tend to gravitate towards artists and photography books. Books that are not mere vessels of information but a form of exhibition space. The relationship between designer and artist and how this interaction plays a role in the creation of the eventual design is something that fascinates me. From what I know of your work it would be a great opportunity for me to work for you.

I would like to invite you to take a look at my website (link below) to see some of my recent work. You will find a selection of books, research based projects and essays. 

If you have any questions or want more information about certain projects please let me know. 

All the best,
Do?a Gönüllü

Dear Rob,

I am sending you this mail to ask you to consider me as an intern for the second half of 2020. I can imagine that you receive quite a few applications so I will try to keep this brief. 

My name is Doğa Gönüllü (1992). I’m originally from Istanbul, Turkey but have been living in the Netherlands for the last couple of years. I started my studies in Istanbul at Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University before transferring to ArtEZ Arnhem. I have been interested in editorial design for quite some time and this interest grew over the time I have been studying in the Netherlands. 

I’m specifically interested in artists and archival books. The purpose of these books usually is to be a simulation of the real thing, a placeholder, yet within the process they become something more than just a repetition, an object of its own. I think within this context, usage of images, typography, materials of a book becomes highly interesting and important. I would like to learn more in-depth within this field in the coming year. I admire that you work on projects that are relative to the present, are interesting and with content that matters but also that you started your own publishing house that focuses on artist books, photo books and research projects, making them available to everyone. I believe it would be a great opportunity for me to learn from you.

I would like to invite you to take a look at my website (link below) to see some of my recent work. You will find a selection of books, research based projects and essays. 

If you have any questions or want more information about certain projects please let me know. 

All the best,
Doğa Gönüllü

Dear Gavillet&Ci

My name is Shirin Pfisterer, a third year graphic design student at Artez Arnhem, the Netherlands. In the upcoming semester, I get the opportunity to apply what I have learned so far and get practical experiences. I am writing to you because I would like to apply for an Internship coming August until December 2017.

In the last year, I am more engaged with typography: how can typefaces be used with media and how can type support images, empower or even replace an image. With these ideas in mind,
I created projects that I recently published on my portfolio web- site. Your studio has great success and created many projects to be impressed by, but what I personally admire the most is the direct influence from art. I believe the fading border between art and design empowers both fields and creates situations and moments that are very raw and powerful. It is these kinds of work that sparked my interest in graphic design.

I am convinced that an internship at Gavillet&Ci would give me the opportunity to apply my fascination for type and image whilst letting me experiment with a playful roughness, allowing it to become a characteristic of my work.

I am looking forward to hearing from you and hope that we could get to know each other personally and talk about the possibility of an internship.

Greetings from the Netherlands 
Shirin Pfisterer

Dear John Smith,

I am writing in regards of the vacancy for the consultancy internship with PwC, as advertised on RateMyPlacement. Please find my CV attached.

I am particularly drawn to this internship at PwC because of its concentration on sustainability and climate change consultancy. PwC is the market-leader in this field, and I am fascinated by the strategies PwC puts in place to help an organisation meet its social and environmental goals. I have been reading about PwC’s recent project, involving the implementation of new sustainability procedures in government buildings across the UK. My involvement in the ‘Clear Up Our Campus’ campaign at university was similar, and makes me a perfect candidate for this internship.
​
As my CV describes, I am two years into a Sustainable Engineering degree, achieving high grades in modules that focussed on sustainable planning in urban environment. My studies have imparted a groundwork of knowledge, and analytical skills that are crucial for a career in this field of consultancy. I also have three years of work experience at The Bear Factory, which has imparted great collaborative skills.

Thank you for considering my application, I look forward to the opportunity to discuss the programme further in an interview.

Yours Sincerely,
Your Name

Dear Mr. Watkins,
 
I was truly elated when my student project on cash flow improvement won the first prize in a local business club contest. Two months after that, my solution was implemented at a construction company where it cut change orders processing time by 20%.
 
I must admit it was no random win, though. I always had a strong desire to pursue a career as a leader in the finance function. As I believe the only way of reaching this goal is through adopting a results-oriented attitude reflected in initiative and accountability, I used my time at university to develop these. I also gained hands-on quantitative, analytical, and problem-solving skills by completing such courses as:
Statistical Inference in Management 
Analytical Methods for Business
Business Communication
 
I would love to demonstrate to you that my GPA of 3.98 doesn’t just show my commitment to learning but also reflects my inherent passion for finances and propensity to grow among like-minded people.
 
When Professor James Henry told me about an internship opportunity with TD Finance, I knew this was an unmissable occasion for further growth, surrounded by outstanding financial professionals.
 
Could we schedule an appointment next week to discuss how I could contribute to the Finance Leadership Development Program and help your company find optimal solutions to its current business needs?
 
Best regards,
Peter Thurlow

Hi there,

My name is Janine Zielman (20), and I live, work and go to school in the Netherlands.
A while ago, I ran into your website/instagram and I just fell in love with your style and way of working. 
Since then i’ve been keeping an eye on your studio, and now I finally have a good reason to contact you.

I’m a 3rd year Graphic Design Student at Artez in Arnhem and I’m looking for an internship from around September till December. 
When my school asked me which studio I would like to do an internship at, your studio immediately popped up in my head.

I really like your style and techniques, and would love to learn from you and your team.
And I feel like I could be a good contribution to your studio as well.
I really like to work digital and I am already quite skilled with HTML, CSS and Javascript and I also have experience working with After Effects, Premiere Pro and Cinema 4D.
Also, I have a part time job at Whale Agency (whale-agency.com), where I already built a lot of experience communicating with clients and learning how to use new software/languages like Sketch and Python. 

Besides creating digital work, I also like to create printed work. Last school semester I made a book that consist of 200+ pages purely made by using the riso machine, which each paper had 1 till 4 layers of different colours. 
It was really fun to have full control, and actually seeing the pages grow and transform into a book. (Link to this specific work: https://janinezielman.com/typography/typography.html)

It would be great if you could check out my website: https://janinezielman.com. 
I’m currently still working on putting all my work on there, so to view even more work you could also check out my instagram: https://www.instagram.com/janinezielman_com/.

I hope to hear from you soon!

Thanks,
Janine Zielman

Dear .., 

The reason I’m sending this mail is to ask you to consider me as an intern at …. for the second half of 2020. My name is Demi Mol (1995). Currently studying Graphic Design 3th year at ArtEZ Institute of the Arts, Arnhem. 

I like your work because.. it connects to my work because..  
>
My interest lays in participative, performance based design and the use of various media. My personal fascinations (sometimes as simple as they can be) become my concepts and I hope to give you a new insight on the story. Sometimes I would even like you to participate and create an outcome together. Performance art is a solid base in the line of my work. (?) I am still finding my way trough all the different media and experimenting with visualising my stories. This … I would like to learn during my internship at your ..

II would like to invite you to take a look at my website (link below) to see some of my recent work. It’s a selection in which I show the various media I talked about before.

If you have any questions or remarks, please let me know!

All the best,
Demi Mol
www.demimol.nl

Hi there,

My name is Janine Zielman (20), and I live, work and go to school in the Netherlands. We talked last Saturday via Instagram and planned a Skype talk for coming Wednesday. Hereby I’m sending you more information about me and my school.

Im currently a 3rd year Graphic Design student at Artez Arnhem and doing an internship is part of the curriculum of my school. The minimum amount of this internship is 3 months, 38 hours per week. But in case needed this could be extended to  a maximum of +- 5 months, August till December. 

The expectation of the school and myself included is to do an internship at a studio that (preferably) fits your style and you can really learn from them in sense of building experience, learning new skills and/or just enjoy your time working with people that like/do the same things as you do or want to do.

I really like to work digital and I am already quite skilled with HTML, CSS and Javascript and I also have experience working with After Effects, Premiere Pro and Cinema 4D. Besides that I am also quite skilled with almost all adobe programs (Illustrator, Indesign, Photoshop), since it’s the first thing you learn in our school and is basically a fundamental in the whole Graphic Design Education. 
Also, I have a part time job at Whale Agency (whale-agency.com), where I already built a lot of experience communicating with clients and learning how to use new software/languages like Sketch and Python. 

Besides creating digital work, I also really like to create printed work. Last school semester I made a book that consist of 200+ pages purely made by using the riso machine, which each paper had 1 till 4 layers of different colours. 
It was really fun to have full control, and actually seeing the pages grow and transform into a book.  What I especially liked about this project is the nice combination between working digital and analog. (Link to this specific work: https://janinezielman.com/typography/typography.html or view more work on janinezielman.com)

To summarise, my work is mostly a combination of digital and print and I like to push the line between those 2. When I saw your work I felt this tension too which made me really excited to do an internship at your studio. I also saw that Music is a key influence in your work, which I really love since I like to play guitar myself and own quite some LP’s which I like to listen to daily. 

I hope to have informed you sufficiently and I’m looking forward to our talk on Wednesday! 

Best,
Janine Zielman

Hi there,

My name is Janine Zielman (20), and I live, work and go to school in the Netherlands.
A while ago, I ran into your studio and I just fell in love with your website and the way you present your work.
Since then i’ve been keeping an eye on your studio, and now I finally have a good reason to contact you guys.

I’m a 3rd year Graphic Design Student at Artez in Arnhem and I’m looking for an internship from around September till December. 
When my school asked me which studio I would like to do an internship at, your studio immediately popped up in my head.

I really like your style and techniques, and would love to learn from your team.
And I feel like I could be a good contribution to your team.
I really like to work digital and I am already quite skilled with HTML, CSS and Javascript and I also have experience working with After Effects, Premiere Pro and Cinema 4D.
Also, I have a part time job at Whale Agency (whale-agency.com), where I already built a lot of experience communicating with clients and learning how to use new software/languages like Sketch and Python. 

It would be great if you could check out my work on instagram @janinezielman_com. (https://www.instagram.com/janinezielman_com/)  
Currently I’m still working on my website (janinezielman.com), but my instagram already contains a lot of my work from previous years which will give you an idea of my style and concepts. 

I hope to hear from you soon!

Kind Regards,
Janine Zielman

Dear Mr. Stevens:

I don’t only think outside the box—I draw outside the lines. When I discovered your graphic design internship on Chegg Internships, I couldn’t wait to bring my creativity and enthusiasm to XYZ Magazine, a publication I’ve long admired for its willingness to take risks. As a junior majoring in graphic design at University College, I’m excited by the opportunity to produce new ideas and concepts alongside your team of industry leaders. Here’s what I’ll bring to XYZ Magazine:

Foundational coursework. I have completed courses in electronic media and culture, graphic design, typography, and photoimaging, and am adept in Adobe Creative Suite.
Campus involvement. For the past two years, I’ve been a member of the Graphic Design Club. As a 25-person student-run organization, we work to create impactful, attractive websites for local nonprofits, free of cost. The website we designed for our local animal shelter led to a 26% increase in donations last year.
Professional experience. As an employee with the Student Activities Office, I design marketing materials for on-campus events, such as Fall Fest, Spring Carnival, and our annual concert.
You’re looking for an intern who can take client ideas and turn them into a reality. I’m that intern, and I can’t wait to work with you. For more information, you can view my portfolio at hkerningportfolio.com. Thank you for your time and consideration, and I look forward to hearing from you soon.

Sincerely,
Harper Kerning

Dear [To whom it may concern],

I am responding to your search for a Production/Graphic Design Summer Intern with The [employer name]. I am a [School Name] undergraduate student in the School of Computer and Information Sciences. I am interested in discussing with you the possibility of my employment with the [Employer Name] during the summer of 2015. I have considerable experience in graphic design for web sites and thorough knowledge of all Adobe Suite applications.

Currently, I am developing and producing the web site for a graduate studies research lab at [School] College of Engineering.

I would be available the first week in May for an interview if required and I do have my own transportation, current drivers license and on island housing. Personal and Island References, are available upon request.

Thank you in advance for your consideration of my employment and the opportunity to work for the [bussiness]  I can be contacted at [Insert phone number and email] to discuss further.

Sincerely,
[Your Name]

Dear, 

I am writing with regards to the - position in your association. I recently graduated from - with a degree in - and I completed a one year work experience in - which allowed me to gain an improve on my practical working skills. I am familiar with - software and have mastered -. Graphic design is something that I am really passionate about and I envisage a long career in this field. During my time as a student I did some freelance work, allowing myself to make a name in the graphic design world. I have been featured in many different magazines and recently won an award for -. As a highly creative an imaginative person, I have a natural ability to work as part of a team and share ideas and experiences. I would welcome a conversation to discuss the contributions I can make to your department. Thank you for your consideration. 

Yours Faithfully,
Name



