In recent decades, artists, photographers, curators, and critics have caught archive fever. Archives and their processes have dominated the discussions in and around photography, with particular consequences for documentary and artistic practices.
Following these debates, Notes on Archives 1: Obtuse, flitting by, and in spite of all—image archives in practice starts with the assumption that an archive today is not only a place of storage but also a place of production, where our relation to the past is materialized and where our present writes itself into the future.
This book explores the difficulties for documentary and artistic practice in and with the archive, and revolves around four key questions: What is the relation between an image and language? What is an author or an owner of an image? What is missing in the archive? And what is an active archive?
In considering these subjects, this book also examines the work of artists, photographers, and makers of archives whose practices in particular have challenged or modeled a different handling of images. These key examples include Dorothea Lange, Richard Wright, Lisa Oppenheim, the Atlas Group, Walid Raad and the Arab Image Foundation, John Berger, Jean Mohr and Edward Said, David Goldblatt, Malek Alloula, Gitte Villesen, Tom Nicholson, Allan Sekula, Harun Farocki, and Aby Warburg. Throughout the book, as these practitioners might suggest, if one starts from the need to preserve an image’s full contextual and historical dimensions, the very structure of archives may need to change.

This chapter aims to introduce an epistemological reflection on the concept of “digital archiving” applied to media art. If the latter appears for many reasons to constitute something “transient and unarchivable” (Ernst, 2004 and 2010), it is because it presents itself ontologically in an exponentially complex form. In other words, the aim is to underline the problems (theoretical and methodological) that media art poses to digital archiving. In order to keep media artworks accessible to contemporary and future users, their inclusion in digital archives is desirable. Digital archives can support the fundamental function of the cultural conservation of these works – understood as a pro cess that not only documents and preserves the technological and material dimensions of these complex works, but also the cultural contexts in which they emerged and were seen. However, this is by no means a neutral process – as will become clear, the digital archiving of complex media artworks has a profound influence on their appearance and interpretation. Therefore, this chapter carefully investigates the epistemological implications of the digital archiving of media art.
First it is important to remember that, with respect to media art, the audiovisual component is one of the possible elements but not necessarily always the most important. Media artworks often take the form of complex installations, combining audiovisual components with sculptures, objects, and photographic components, amongst others. How is it possible to “archive,” for example, works such as the complex, sculptural installations Human Being (2009) by Pascale Marthine Tayou and Experimentet (2009) by Nathalie Djur berg,2 or the “dissipative”3 sculptures of Cetacea (2005; 2010) from the DRAW ING RESTRAINT 9 series by Matthew Barney?

Notwithstanding the complexity of many media artworks it is possible to establish a hierarchy between the elements that make up complex installations. If the audiovisual dimension is prominent, it can show itself according to a variety of typological modes such as: (multi)media installation with video, multichannel video installation, single-channel video installation, projective video installation, moving image installation, film installation, video sculpture, time-based installation, and interactive installation.4
What should be the procedure for the digital archiving of a film installation such as Disappearance at Sea (Cinemascope), 1996, by Tacita Dean, of the multichannel installation The Lightning Testimonies (2007) by Amar Kanwar,5 or of the CREMASTER Cycle (20022003)6 exhibition by Matthew Barney ? How can we use the benefits of digital archiving for the future preservation and accessibility of these works without severely compromising their appearance and meaning?
Creating a digital archive of media artworks potentially entails a reduction of the works’ complexity. It is necessary to examine the complexity of media art and understand how the problems that arise in the digital archiving of such works can be resolved. From the viewpoint of information technology, digital archiving is the development of a “digital library,” an expression that corresponds to an intrinsically multidisciplinary complex notion,7 which defines a system of constitution, order, management, and longterm preservation of “rich digital content” according to “specialized functionality” targeted at “user communities.”
Developing a digital library involves a digital library system (software architecture concerning the specific functions required by a specific type of digital library) and a digital library management system (software infra structure that produces and administrates a digital library system made up of all the functions considered fundamental for digital libraries and that pro vides for the integration of additional software in relation to specialized or advanced functions).8 Here, the definition of digital library will be limited to the archiving process and aimed at stressing a methodology that, allowing for the convergence of interdisciplinary skills, is able to reproduce the semantics of a complex application domain such as that of media art. This starts from the “conversion” procedures (“translation” and “transformation”) of non digital artwork into digital objects (or “information objects”). This conversion can only represent the complexity of the artwork in the form of a documentary trace.
The method of such an archiving practice is related to the notion of digital library, which is in its own way an “abstract system that consists of both physical and virtual components.”9 It has to refer to the organization of contents10 (or, more precisely, the repository of contents, ontologies, classification schemes, and so on), by creating parameters of functional configuration (formats, user profile and document/data model etc.). The contents are built through the conversion process of physical objects (also in the case of graphic, photographic, or cinematographic documentary traces of conceptual artworks) into digital objects that, as mentioned before, transform these analogue originals into documents kept in the archive. The documentary character induced by the digitalization process must be able to translate the inherent complexity of media artworks.
wAyS of ARcHIVING: RElATIoNS BETwEEN “ARcHIVE” AND “coNTEMPoRARy ART”
Over the course of the 20th century, visual artworks acquired an everincreas ing formal complexity. From the first decade of the 21st century onwards, this formal complexity can be seen in the works of a great variety of artists such as Pierre Huyghe, Philippe Parreno, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Tacita Dean, Nathalie Djurberg, and Félix GonzalesTorres. The oeuvre of these artists is characterized by a recurring mode that presents itself as a “path” (Bourriaud, 1998 and 2009; Birnbaum 2005), where the works of art are only points of immanence in transit, that are also repeated and are subject to variations.
Overall, media art presents a prevalent typology of artworks that require new and effective documentation, preservation, and dissemination methods (with the relevant accessibility levels), which are able to make up a system that can manage the contemporary art scene from the preservation and archiving viewpoint. This scene must be documented, preserved, maintained, and made accessible in a digital archive that preserves contemporary materials and actually works as “archaeology of the future” according to Fredric Jameson’s definition (1991), starting from the ability to historicize the concrete examples of contemporary art.
Media artworks belong to a project (or “chain” of projects) and tend to be serial and variable instead of unique and stable. From this follows that media art proves to be “archivable” only from a documentary standpoint, given its multidimensionality and material, conceptual and progressive complexity (compare chapter 6.1). However, the present methods of documentation related to the digital archive show structural limitations. Hal Foster pointed out that, on one hand, interfaces are still screens (“windows”), icons, and texts, whilst on the other hand in this kind of archiving, it is essential to “transform a wide range of mediums into various systems of image texts” (Foster, 2002). Because technological media are devices of the cultural industry that contain recording and storing systems, communication systems (with their own ways of production and reception or consumption), “languages,” and expressive techniques, it follows that a proper digital archiving of these media requires the capturing of the specific form of experience (Casetti, 2008: 2930) (of the relationship between the artwork and the audience) related to the medium in question.
In many ways, the digital archiving of complex media artworks entails consecutive “translations” and progressive “dispersions” of data, but not only that. It also involves a complex integrated system of documentation, semantic indexation, preservation, restoration, and cultural dissemination practices, as well as an epistemological check of applications and information technology, which are subject to programmed obsolescence. In fact, information technology itself requires cyclical monitoring programs, constant maintenance and continuous software upgrading, to ward off the ever present risk of “every thing returning to plastic and silicon again” (Ferraris, 2007).
The processes that take place in media artworks during their translation into digital archival material (as will become clear, also in relation to the practices related to digital conservation), transform them into peculiar digital con tents to safeguard at an ethical and cultural level, not only at a financial and legal level. Such processes give the action of “archiving” a double meaning. The first is the construction of information objects, which are digital documents of the media artworks, the second is their public dissemination and accessibility. In that sense, the digital archive can be an ideal platform for the “cultural conservation” of media artworks described above as a process that not only documents and preserves the technological and material dimensions of these complex works, but also the cultural contexts in which they emerged and were seen. But this is not a neutral “cultural epistemological” process (Foster, 2002: 7172). In fact, in both its literal and metaphorical definition, the normative and selective administrative function of the archive continues to define itself in the “power” dimension, which is not simply an “operational power” (Foucault, 1972). The archive is a “social place” before being a “physical space”; it is a historically determined institutional space, responsible for the selection and the construction conservation of documents (Derrida, 1995; Ricoeur, 2000). In a metaphorical sense, the archive is a “collective memory,” complete with an institutionalized method for the recording of testimonies designed for the construction of the documents to archive. It pertains to the selection of what, within a specific historical context and with regards to historiographic sources, can be made archivable and what cannot. The modal condition of the possibility of archiving is thus created by the “discourse” (the operating system of values and connections between data) underlying the archive, a dis course that, by indicating what is or is not archivable, selects and organizes the documents – institutionalizes them, as it were. This discourse is carried out “silently” (Ernst 2004) and therefore not directly observable, but nevertheless it actively constructs and records the documents within the archive itself. In that sense, as Wolfgang Ernst says, this “silence” is “power at work, unnoticed by narrative discourse.” According to Ernst: “This power is analogous to the power of media, which depends on the fact that media hide and dissimulate their technological apparatus through their content, which is an effect of their interface” (Ernst 2004: 48). A “silence” of this kind becomes traceable in the documentary testimonies of “historiographies,” in their intent of truth, in the “archived memories” which instead take a form of narrative (Ricoeur, 2000). In this way this silence also becomes traceable in the digital dimension, in the software infrastructure with regards to the interconnecting system of contents and, if it is web based, in the http protocols. As Ernst explains “The real ‘archive’ in the Internet (in the sense of arché) is its system of technological protocols” (Ernst 2010: 87). In such a view, the aggregated Internet database progressively shows the literal and metaphorical dimensions of the archive.
In the artistic environment, the diffractions of the cultural transformation produced by the application diffusion of information technology and the relative “discourse formations” highlight in many different ways, as it were, its “symbolic form.” (Panofsky, 1927; Cassirer, 1923) Not so much (or, not only) with respect to artistic practices that conform to the information technology platform or that are digitally isomorphic (as with net art and software art), but rather in relation to a way of thinking – a principle of continuous transcoding that moves materials, technological platforms, expressive systems, and signs through a network of connections that are revealed by deeply transformative practices. This results in the final abandonment of the idea of originality in artistic work, since every digitalization process gradually undermines the presence of the source. What was already encoded is encoded again, and every (re)encoding dissolves the notion of authenticity, that starting with Romanticism was inherited by aesthetics that introduced the idealistic notion of uniqueness, originality and thus “artistic character” as a quality belonging to the non-repeatability of the work. With digitalization, every “generation” of data is only a moment in a chain that has no beginning or end. This seems to be the operational principle of most contemporary art. As Nicolas Bourriaud pointed out: “[...] In these works, every element used is valued for its ability to modify the form of another. One could cite countless examples of these trans format practices, all of which attest to the fact that invention modes of passage from one regime of expression to another is indeed a major concern of the art of the 2000s” (Bourriaud, 2009: 135). These transformative practices make use of “temporary displays” within which, in many remarkable ways, the “notion” of archive acts (Derrida, 1995).In 2004, Hal Foster pointed out the repositioned centrality of the “archive” in the art of the 1990s, defining it as “an archival impulse,” with particular attention on the art works by Tacita Dean, Sam Durant, Thomas Hirschhorn and Pierre Huyghe, Philippe Parreno, Douglas Gordon, Stan Douglas, Liam Gillick, and Mark Dion (Foster, 2004). It is in fact a trend towards the metaphorical dimension of the archive, that develops its memorial and “immemorable” dimension (Ricoeur’s paradox of oblivion as immemorable resource) in the context of concrete artworks. This way, on the one hand it is possible to branch out towards the latent layers of oblivion and the subtle and silent forms of what Ricoeur calls “archival oblivion, that is archived oblivion” (Ricoeur, 2000, see also Agamben 2007) that inspired Christian Boltanski, Fabio Mauri, and Péter Forgács in different ways. On the other hand, the focus moves from the immediate normative bureaucratic function of the archive deconstructed in the works of Michael Fehr, Andrea Fraser, Susan Hiller, and Sophie Calle, to the function that defines the archive as part of a complex enunciative and creative strategy, as in the projects of the Atlas Group/Waalid Raad, Thomas Hirschhorn, and Hans Peter Feldmann. In addition, artists such as Fiona Tan act upon single “archives of images” or “image archives” (see Noorde graaf, 2008 and 2009 and Elsaesser, 2009), in the same way that Ken Jacobs and Yervant Gianikian and Angela Ricci Lucchi previously did. Others, such as Gustav Deutsch, Matthias Müller, Christoph Girardet, and Martin Arnold make use of that database of 20thcentury images that is cinema, through procedures of reprogramming or postproduction (see Bourriaud, 2002), as it already happened with Joseph Cornell (Rose Hobart, 19361939), Gianfranco Baruchello, and Alberto Grifi (La Verifica incerta. Disperse Exclamatory Phase, 19641965).
The modes of translation of the matter and the concepts from one form to another, from one work to another, involve the archive as a “device” (Foucault, 1972) and as a “display.” The complexity of this kind of practices was affected by the use of technologies, not only by information technology.

Archiving and archives: a common ‘theme’ of discussion, an area of ‘interest’, an ‘issue' in art and culture these days. And here I am writing about it, as if to prove the point.
I will dispel any sense that there is fatigue on my part. Rather I am a recidivist where archives are concerned. I love seeing dead things in museums, especially if there are living and dead things together, like at the Hancock Museum in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, which has amongst other things a giant I've Amazonian bird-eating spider, an Egyptian Mummy and a load of coalminers' regalia. And I love the curious way that artists bring materials together to make archives of their own, or inflect an existing archive with their own curatorship, artistry, investigation and, as ever in the archive, particularity.
I was asked to write something about archiving and documentation initially in collaboration with Sarah Pierce, an artist colleague, but it turns out alone. My exploration in this field has its genesis in a body of performance-installation works that I began making in 1999, which I referred to as ‘act-archiving’ works. These came about as I became increasingly curious about the indexicality of materials and gestures in performance artworks that evolve in and through installation. I wrote a manifesto on the practice, and years later this body of work would
form the basis of a practice-based PhD.’ At the end of 2006, I was involved with Pierce and others, with whom I work at Interface, in the curation of I Confess that I was there, a season of art in Belfast that was designed to explore ‘art, archives and location’, to which I will make some references.” I am interested in declaring my voice, as I am about to stress, in a three-fold approach: the language of critical writing that addresses archives, the definition of archives, and the motivation of artists’ projects therein. 
The choice of referring to the archiving ‘theme’, ‘interest’ or ‘issue’ in a work itself inflects value into our observation of the artist's undertaking, if we are making specific use of language. ‘Theme’ is a very general term,’ ‘interest’ already implies that something more is at stake, vested,‘ and ‘issue’ belongs to the language of dispute,’ implying the need for solutions. We inflect value subtly into things all the time in our choice of words, and whilst this is fine in casual conversation, attention is merited where criticism or other formal commentary is concerned. This is especially true if we are grappling with discerning, from events and conditions, an apparent ‘fashion’, trying to reason a ‘tendency’, or promote a ‘current’. As the Comte de Lautréamont insinuates, we cannot fully apprehend the cultural patterns of our time, we will always fail, to a degree. No less difficult a task to be lucid, before the onslaught, in our Debordian age of appearances.' This is not an argument against the undertaking of critique, far from it; it is a suggestion that the attempt be informed by specifics.’ In wanting to stay close to the facts, I bear less the mark of postmodernism on my brow.”

Archives take many forms, including: museum collections, public registries, such as those of Births, Marriages and Deaths, and the records offices of public and private societies and companies. The Society of Archivists Diploma Training Manual states that archives are “The formal written record of the Athenian law courts which hag to be maintained for future use. The building in which the records were housed. The title of the magistracy, who were responsible for maintaining the record.”

Following this professional definition, a layman's definition, but nonetheless one that 1s underpinned by etymology and history, describes the archive as “A place or collection containing records, documents, or other materials o historical interest, for public consultation.” However restrictive the terms, the archive must be navigable and accessible.

Moving to a philosophical approach, Jacques Derrida also anchors his study - Archive fever: a Freudian impression’
- in Antiquity, but his use of psychoanalytical theory and deconstructivist practice leads us to understand that the professional view is invested with layers — veils — of poetic and political ambition, despite, or perhaps better put because, of the scientific, managerial and law-making aspirations of the archive. Archives are invested with a spirit, a form of ordering is imposed once material is brought together, and meaning and use value constructed through it. Though documentation may exist that provides an inventory, narrates a historical trajectory and explains the policy of access, the meaning and use value of the archive will not be transparent, entirely evident, known or knowable. This is because the entirety of the motives of the archive founder, and the archivist's hands thereafter, is no more fully known ta them than any individual can see the entire shape of their imagination and agency.

